Idea of a PM makes no sense in the
future. The skill is more like being a
CEO now, which is what are we building
and why?
>> There's a lot of anxiety in the job
market.
>> AI is going to radically reorient lots
of people's careers and maybe including
mine. What I've noticed in some of the
best organizations is the number one
consumer of tokens is the CMO. They
don't need to rely upon deputies and
deputies and deputies to get actual work
product.
>> I want to hit on some contrarian takes
that you have. Your advice you don't
actually want to be talking to
customers.
>> I hate talking to customers. I refuse to
allow colleagues of mine to talk to
customers.
>> You have this idea of criticizing in
public versus in private.
>> High performance machines don't have
psychological safety. They're about
winning.
>> You're uniquely great at helping
companies build world-class teams.
>> If a founder shows ability early in his
or her career to assess talent
ruthlessly and accurately, he or she can
go very far with no other abilities
whatsoever.
>> It feels like it's never been harder to
attract the best talent.
>> Really talented people when things are
going well,
>> they're not happy.
>> The morale actually does go down when
people are skating. The single role for
the CEO is offsetting that complacency.
The better you're doing, the more the
CEO should push.
>> Today my guest is Keith Rabois. Keith's
resume both as an operator and investor
is absurd. He was an early investor in
Stripe, Palantir, Airbnb, YouTube,
DoorDash, Ramp, and dozens of other
companies. He's part of the famous
PayPal Mafia where he was Executive Vice
President Business Development and
Policy. He's also been Chief Operating
Officer at Square, VP of Corporate
Development at LinkedIn. He's also a
co-founder two companies and he's
currently Managing Director at Khosla
Ventures. It's safe to say that Keith is
in the 99.9th percentile at identifying
talent, building teams, and operating
world-class companies. Before we get
into it, don't forget to check out
Lenny's product pass.com for an
incredible set of deals available
exclusively to Lenny's newsletter
subscribers. With that, I bring you
Keith Rabois.
Keith, thank you so much for being here,
and welcome to the podcast.
>> It's a pleasure to be with you.
>> Okay, so when we were starting this
recording, you told me you're doing this
from an iPad, which I've never had, and
you shared a crazy fact that you haven't
used a computer in like years. Talk Talk
about what's going on there.
>> Yeah, so when I when I started working
at Square, Jack Dorsey was running the
company off an iPad, and so I
immediately converted in September 2010,
and haven't looked back. I haven't
touched a computer since September 2010.
Everything I do in my life is either
done from my phone, my watch, or my
iPad.
>> What's so interesting about this as you
were talking is just there's this trend
of engineers starting to code from their
phone. Like at Boris
and Simon Wilson, these two engineers
that are like Tenex engineers, and
they're just like coding from their
phone talking to AI. And I feel like
you've
you've been preparing for this for a
long time.
>> Yeah, I'm trying to be ahead of the
curve. Jobs is very good at being ahead
of the curve. If you just watch what
Jobs is doing and follow him,
pretty good shape in technology.
>> And just understand the benefit, is it
just avoid distractions?
>> Yeah, partially distractions, partially
just the flexibility by taking an iPad
with you anywhere is just super easy.
You know, I you some of the some laptops
have improved since then, but like the
screen flexibility angles, but like just
the weight. Like I carry my iPad with me
everywhere, so there's no reason there's
nothing you can't perform unless maybe
if you're doing heavy duty engineering,
which obviously has not been my forte in
life, although I may have to start.
There's no reason to use a more
powerful, heavier weight, less flexible
machine.
>> Wow, iPad maxing, Keith Rabois.
>> Saving up my Apple. As long as it's an
Apple product, it works.
>> So appropriate.
This episode is brought to you by our
season's presenting sponsor WorkOS. What
do OpenAI, Anthropic, Cursor, Vercel,
Replit, Sierra, Clay, and hundreds of
other winning companies all have in
common? They are all powered by WorkOS.
If you're building a product for the
enterprise, you've felt the pain of
integrating single sign-on, SCIM, RBAC,
audit logs, and other features required
by large companies. WorkOS turns those
deal blockers into drop-in APIs with a
modern developer platform built
specifically for B2B SaaS. Literally
every startup that I'm an investor in
that starts to expand upmarket ends up
working with WorkOS. And that's because
they are the best. Whether you are seed
stage startup trying to land your first
enterprise customer, or a unicorn
expanding globally, WorkOS is the
fastest path to becoming enterprise
ready and unblocking growth. It's
essentially Stripe for enterprise
features. Visit workos.com to get
started, or just hit up their Slack
where they have actual engineers waiting
to answer your questions. WorkOS allows
you to build faster with delightful
APIs, comprehensive docs, and a smooth
developer experience. Go to workos.com
to make your app enterprise ready today.
As I was preparing for this chat,
there's just like so many directions we
could have gone with this. You are so
smart on so many things.
I want to focus on something that I
think you're uniquely great at, which is
helping companies build world-class
teams.
And I want to start in particular with
attracting the best talent.
And what's really interesting these
days, from what I can tell, is there's
just like a lot of people that are
struggling to find a job. It's taking a
long longer to find a job. It's just
there's all these layoffs. On the other
hand, it feels like it's never been
harder to attract the best talent. There
are so many amazing companies doing
amazing things, so much money flying
around, these hundred million-dollar
offers and things.
And so, from the companies that you are
closest to that you see are best at
attracting the best talent, what have
they figured out? What are they doing
differently? What are some creative
things they do?
>> Well, let's start with first principles.
The most important lesson I learned when
I was working at Square from my board
was Vinod Khosla was on my board and he
said the team you build is the company
you build.
And that adage is the most important
thing when you're creating a startup.
People get distracted with the market,
with customers, with the product, with
technology. Ultimately, it's the team.
If you have the right people,
everything else will be easy and you
have the wrong people, everything else
is going to be difficult. So, I actually
learned this be Vinod distilled it, but
I actually learned this back from my
PayPal days. So, you know, in the early
2000s, why was PayPal so successful? Why
were there such a gender, you know,
subsequent generations of successful
interesting companies
uh for, you know, 25 years now is
because Peter Thiel and Max Levchin
marshaled an incredible density of
talent. So, it allowed PayPal to succeed
where possibly we wouldn't have. And
these people went on with interesting
ideas, ambition, and talent to build
epic companies, you know, in all kinds
of verticals. So, from day one, I've
always been day day one of my technical
career,
uh technology career, I've always been
focused on how the importance of
critical density of talent. How do you
identify, retain, and promote people
with that talent?
Back in the PayPal days when I first
started my career technology, I actually
truthfully was not very good at this. Um
fortunately, Peter and Max were. So, Max
basically hired all the technical talent
in the organization and Peter pretty
much hired everybody else. Uh they used
their network primarily, so it was very
difficult to get a job at PayPal unless
you had a first degree or second degree
connection uh to the engineering team or
to Peter through Stanford, which is a
different type of recruiting model. It
works really well if you have a strong
network. I wouldn't recommend it for
everybody, but if you have a network
that has, you know, unique
talent,
there's no substitute. Interviews are
not a great substitute or there is a how
strong they are in an interview.
But, when I started back for real,
I was mediocre at, let's say, hiring
people. Probably 50/50, you know, some
good people, some mediocre people. That
doesn't allow you to scale a team with
an unfair advantage.
But, what I learned to do is steal
people from other people's organizations
within PayPal very successfully. So, I
got feedback from David Sacks, who was
the COO at the time, that I wasn't going
to get promoted again until I until I
could demonstrate uh leverage, like
leadership leverage, which he had an
equation for uh 1 + 1 has to equal three
or more. So, for every incremental
person you hire, you have to show that
you produce disproportionate returns,
non-linear returns. And because I wasn't
hiring that well, I wasn't really
succeeding at that leverage. So, when I
went around, took the feedback into
account, and I said, "Hmm, okay, I
really want to get promoted, what do I
do?"
So, I found people within the
organization that I felt had talent,
that were were not being leveraged to
their highest potential and ambition,
and I recruited them to my team.
And that was very successful.
And then I did get promoted, actually
fairly quickly, because these people
actually were up to speed, they were
able to learn really fast, and we
produced a lot of really important
results for the company.
The lesson though that I took away was,
well, that's great, because what it
showed to me is I actually could
identify talent, I just couldn't
identify strangers with talent. So,
people that were in the building that I
have lunch with or dinner with or go for
a run around the PayPal campus with,
I was accurate at diagnosing their
abilities, I just couldn't do it, you
know, in a 20-minute, 30-minute,
45-minute interview.
So, the first thing is just double down
on people I know.
That doesn't scale perfectly,
but learn to be excellent at and if I
had contacts, assessing people's
abilities, superpowers, and you know,
weaknesses,
then over the next X years, try to
identify uh ability a different
technique for identifying, assessing
random people, because ultimately if to
build an organization ultimately if
you're going to be a VC you can't just
invest in people that you already know.
So that took some years and required
some training.
Anyway, I think you can teach some of
this to a founder.
But one advantage a founder has that's
going to thrive is if a founder shows
the ability early in his or her career
to assess talent ruthlessly and
accurately
he or she can go very far with no other
abilities whatsoever. The hiring is like
a muscle.
You need to exercise it. You need to
try, learn what worked, what didn't,
what what could you have known, what
what you missed, why, and you know
riff on that and try to get better at
it. There are tactics you can learn. I
think the tactics work pretty well
within the middle of a bell curve
distribution of moving yourself 10 20°
within that bell curve. I don't think
the tactics can really teach you how to
identify call it like top 10 basis
points top 50 basis points of talent.
There you have to deviate from the norm
and I think that's actually true of most
lessons in life. If you're going to be
extraordinary in any skill you can't
follow a playbook otherwise by
definition lots of other people would be
in the top 10 basis points. But but you
can get a lot better by learning
techniques. So for example, let's share
a couple.
One thing I think you can learn to do is
is be excellent at references.
It doesn't work for hiring people right
out of college or something cuz
the reference context is going to be a
little off.
But I think without getting better at
interviewing assessing if you just learn
to extract the right information from
ruthless referencing.
So for example, ruthless referencing to
me means Tony at DoorDash does 20
references on every single senior hire.
20.
>> Wow.
>> I bet you he's pretty good.
I bet you he's been pretty accurate,
too.
Uh so I I you can learn that. That's
like a
a skill that's teachable that being
absolutely, you know, incredibly
dedicated to your craft, you can just
get better at. Back in the day, there
was an investor at Greylock who was on
my board at LinkedIn, David Sze, very
successful investor, notable for both
LinkedIn and Facebook investments.
He used to teach at Greylock, you
couldn't stop referencing a founder
until you hit a negative reference. So,
you would know you'd exhausted the
reference
when you finally hit a negative
reference. And so, I think there are
tactics there and you know, muscle
building, how do you get the right
information from the right people, how
do you frame the questions, etc.
that will lead you in the right
direction. Now, you have to be careful,
like let's say, I'll give you an example
where this can go wrong. Uh I'm been a
long-time investor from the seed round
of company called Fair founded by
uh two of my colleagues at Square, uh
Max Rhodes and Jeff Kolodny, uh worked
for me um at Square and then the two
other co-founders also worked at Square.
When people were reference checking Max,
often most VCs asked the wrong question,
which was Max was Max a good employee?
The answer to that is very mixed. And
so, some venture capitalists, including
some very good ones, were nervous about
investing in Fair.
If they framed the question slightly
differently, which is is Max capable of
being a world-class entrepreneur, the
answer was yes. So, you again, it's like
a tactic, you have to understand like
what exactly am I trying to extract?
Same person, wrong question, wrong
result. And many people passed on Fair
and they regret it. And these are
actually quite talented investors. They
just didn't frame the question correctly
when they were calling someone like Jack
Dorsey up for the reference.
>> Any other questions you find really
helpful in extracting the right
information?
>> When when I interview candidates for
senior people in leadership positions, I
always ask them, you know, look at
whatever company they're at and say, "If
you were CEO, what would you have done
differently?"
And you get a feel for their strategic
mindset of, you know, can they drive
value creation? Because almost by
definition, they've come from a company
that's had some traction and success.
So, can they add it So, for your case, I
would have asked you, you know, "If you
were CEO of Airbnb, what would you have
done differently?"
And you learn a lot from that question.
On references specifically,
I think a general arc that's pretty good
is asking the person, "What would lead
to this person being most successful?"
And
"If something were not to work out, what
would be the primary root cause that you
can identify of something going wrong?"
I think generally probing those two arcs
leads to a lot of insight.
>> And that first question is for the
candidate or or is that in the
reference?
>> candidate. That's for the candidate
specifically.
>> Got it.
>> Uh because it's not like I don't want
them to criticize Airbnb. I don't I
don't think that's not productive. But
you can tell how much of the current
business model have they absorbed,
how much they understand tradeoffs, and
then they can they create an unfair
advantage, you know, can they do they
have do they have insights into
afterburners? And then I'm going to
follow up question, which is using gold,
which is let's say I asked you this
question about Airbnb and you give me
this great answer. I'm like, "Well, why
didn't you Why weren't you able to
persuade Brian to do it?"
>> So, you made this interesting point that
there's like tactics that can help you
get better at finding and identifying
talent. A lot of this is just the
feedback loop of doing it a bunch, it
sounds like. I find the feedback loop is
so like it's hard to actually like Like
most people interview, hire, and then
don't really learn much from how it ends
up going. Like there's this gut thing
that happens, but they're not like
really thinking about it. Do you have
any advice for just how to make the most
out of the lesson of seeing how
something went?
>> Sure, I've read some research on the
topic, and if you ask yourself 30 days
after any hire, would you make the same
decision?
That 30-day loop is pretty pretty
useful, and it
it basically
it's as accurate as measuring a year or
two years out. So, you got a pretty
tight feedback loop and you can ask the
entire hiring team. Uh so, I think that
is that's just a technique that every
company should use.
>> I want to talk about this framework that
you have, uh barrels and ammunition,
because this
is really
mind-expanding and helping people
understand who to even hire.
>> So, look, most companies raise money,
they have some traction, they raise you
know, their seed round, it gets
launched, gets some traction, then they
raise a lot of money. Whether it's a
series A or series B. And then they hire
a lot of people infallibly or at least
historically.
And then the CEO
almost without exception gets frustrated
because they've hired a lot of people,
their burn rate has increased a lot, and
they don't feel like that's more get
more is getting accomplished per unit of
time, per day, per week, per month, per
quarter. And they get frustrated, and so
then they sit around at a dinner with
other CEOs or people like me or
one-on-one conversations with me, and
they're incredibly unhappy and
disappointed that I'm spending all this
money on all these people, but we're
getting less done or same done, and why,
why, why, why.
After years of sitting through these
conversations at dinner with other CEOs
or COOs, I realized that the fundamental
driver of this is that
the number of people that can
independently drive an initiative from
beginning from inception to success is
very limited with any within any
company. And if you hire more people
without expanding the number of what I
call barrels that can drive from
inception to success, all you're doing
is stacking people behind the same
initiatives. And so, you're wasting
time, energy, and increasing your
collaboration tax, your coordination
tax, and so that's what causes the drag
coefficient. So, for example, at PayPal,
we had about 254 people in Mountain View
when we were acquired.
Of those people, depending on how strict
you really want to be, it is considered
one of the best talent-rich networks of
all time in technology. There is between
12 to 17 barrels in the organization.
That's like an infinite number. I once
asked Jack Altman on a podcast at Lotus,
which is pretty damn big company, how
many barrels are at the company? The
answer was two.
That's a more common answer.
For a very good company.
So, you have between two and let's say
15 barrels at a company.
That defines the unique number of things
you can do in parallel or sequentially.
And just hiring more people is not going
to change that. If anything, it's just
going to cause a collaboration and
coordination tax and you're going to
have drag coefficient and you're going
to do less.
So, the key is to me is if you want to
do more, or need to do more, your market
requires you to do more, or your
business model requires you to do more,
VCs require you to do more, you need to
have more barrels.
Now, the question is how and when and
you know all this there's a lot of
details there, but fundamentally the
ratio of barrels to ammunition is what
dictates the number of important
initiatives that can be pursued
simultaneously.
>> And you're not saying you don't want
ammunition. Like it's valuable. To make
an impact, you need ammunition in
addition to the
>> Yeah, you definitely need ammunition and
depends on what kind of project. There
are types of projects where an
individual barrel may be able to succeed
with very limited or no, you know,
ammunition. Sometimes you need
a designer, an engineering team, a PM, a
data analysis, blah blah blah. So, it
depends on what the project is, what the
problem you're trying to solve is,
what's the proper amount of ammunition.
But once you think about the ratios of
ammunition to the problem, you can be
much more constructive and deliberate
and intentional about the team
construction.
>> Most people hearing this, uh
assuming they are barrels,
what helps you understand if someone is
truly a barrel?
>> Can they take an idea and make it
happen? Basically, we're going up that
There's a hill over there.
That's the hill.
Get us over that hill. And one way or
the other,
they will motivate
people if they need to, they will
accumulate resources if they need to,
they will measure what they need to, and
they're going to get your company across
that hill. That's a barrel. Anything
less than that is not a barrel.
>> And so this is skills like internal
poli- org stuff, resource like stra-
like what Yeah, it's kind of the
collection of all the things to get
something
>> Collection of all those things. It's
just basically there's an outcome.
>> Mhm.
>> CEO wants CEO founder wants an outcome.
And come hell or high water, this person
is going to deliver that outcome. Then
the outcome can be, you know, fairly
narrow in not that difficult in the
beginning, and then you expand the
scope, you know, of the complexity, the
difficulty that you basically entrust
to your barrels.
And And sometimes they have no line of
sight of how to solve it when you start.
Sometimes you have a preliminary idea.
So it ranges, but ultimately it's that
skill of I'm going to take this off your
plate. You can fire and forget, and this
is going to happen.
And if it's not going to happen, I will
going to come back to you proactively
with the issues I'm confronting, what
I've already tried, the diagnosis of the
root causes, and ask for your help with
sufficient time for you to intervene and
try to brainstorm with me to get us to
the right answer.
>> Agency is the word that comes to mind
when you talk about this role.
>> Yeah, I think agency is accurate. The
problem I have with terms like agency is
it's a little bit like strategy. It goes
in one ear a lot of people and out the
other, and they don't really process the
meaning.
>> Yeah.
What are some examples of barrels that
make this real so people can understand
what you're talking about?
>> You know, I talked to my YC lecture in
2014 about how to how to operate.
They can be as simple as
the now someone famous in technology
smoothie test, which is
you know, we used to have engineers work
pretty hard at a square and pretty late.
And I always wanted them to have like
food, so they wouldn't be famished, they
wouldn't be distracted, and I didn't
really want them to eat like junk food
cuz I I actually think junk food's bad
for you, bad for your brain, etc. So,
settled on delivering and really wanted
to provide like at 9:00 p.m. like cold
smoothies.
And we had a at that time a pretty
substantial team at Square, office team,
EAs, you know, this was not a lean, mean
organization.
And so, I tried through the office team
EAs
and nothing. We never got uh uh healthy,
delicious, and cold smoothies delivered
at 9:00 p.m.
Just kept failing. I was getting
frustrated cuz they if you if the if the
smoothies aren't cold, then no one's
going to eat them. They don't arrive at
9:00, then no one can really bank on,
you know, the refresher refreshments.
Everything went wrong. And then I had
this intern, named Taylor Francis.
Uh and I was explaining just my
frustration.
And he was like, "This is the second day
of work."
And he's like, "I'll solve it."
And I was like,
"Okay, kid.
Good luck with that." Like I was like,
"Sure, keep try you try." Anyway, day
goes by.
9:00 pops arrives.
And lo and behold, smoothies show up at
9:00 p.m. delivered on the standing desk
table where the engineers would
congregate. I sample them, they're cold,
they taste great. And I'm like, "Oh my
god, I found a barrel."
And I later gave him almost everything
to do.
>> I want to go back to actually the first
question. We did You shared some amazing
advice for how to
identify great talent, but I'm still
curious when you find that barrel, for
example, when like everyone's throwing
money at them, there's all these amazing
teams to join. What are some things that
companies do to attract and convince
them to join their team?
>> This There's standard stuff that's still
true.
Mission, selling the vision and mission
is indispensable. Most people have
proven talent anyway,
at least in the current world are going
to
attract offers for multiple
you know, opportunities. And so you've
got to convince them that your
opportunity is very special. I think one
way to do that that's a little bit more
nuanced is convince them that their
particular skill
overlaps with the critical blockers to
the current company, meaning they're
betting on themselves. So for example,
if they are superb at let's say
marketing,
if the biggest blocker of the company in
the company's current success is not
technology, not the product, but we
believe it's marketing,
it's really easy to go to a world-class
marketing person and say, "Not only is
this great company building something
really cool and interesting that you'll
be proud of,
but your particular ability
is very unique and differentiated and
you can solve this." This is actually
how I wound up at Square. Back in 2010,
um I was actually I just been aqua-hired
Google
and um was planning on being a VC
actually next after I was kind of like
vesting whatever Google's going to
compensate us.
And then um the investors in Square
called me up and they said, "Hey, we've
been looking for almost a year now for
someone who knows something about
financial services yet is still
entrepreneurial."
And they're they're
they're okay, there's only three of
these at the time 2009 there's like
there's only really two or three of you
um in the world. You know, so would you
be interested? I said, "Well, maybe."
But that was the argument to me that
made me leave Google early like after
two weeks and infuriate everybody
and
bypass you know, a venture for another
three years which had been my plan was
because they made the argument that,
"Hey, I was one of the three people in
the world that could actually do this
job."
>> So look, there's like a I don't know if
it's ego, but it's also just like
impact.
>> Yep, well, exactly. Impact like if you
you have talent, you want to use them
and you want to fuel that you're
challenged every day and that what
you're doing really, really matters. So,
that I think that can be extremely
helpful. You know, my
more important arc in this is I think
you have to build a company on
undiscovered talent. Like I don't think
you really want to compete for the
people that everybody else wants, right?
And you know, I learned this at PayPal.
Peter taught me this literally the first
day and first week of my job at PayPal
that the way to build a company we were
jogging around the Stanford campus is
you've got to find these undiscovered
talent. That's the only way to scale
organization against these large
incumbents with infinite money, etc. And
you know, I've been on that crusade for
25 years. For those who are interested,
you can link to it. I gave a speech at
Ramp, you know, how to hire. The talk's
in detail. I also recommend Eric, CEO of
Ramp's speech, which is fairly similar.
Uh both videos are online.
>> I that's such interesting advice and
makes so much sense. You're not going to
be able to afford the people that have
done the thing at top companies. And
also, they're just probably not the
people to join at early stage.
>> also not maybe the people you want so
there's ever selection, but you know,
it's like a salary cap. Most sports
these days have salary caps.
And when you're a startup, not only do
you have a salary cap, you probably have
1/10 the salary cap of the people you're
competing with. So, you've got to figure
out how to leverage, you know, less
assets to more success.
>> What's just one tip when you're looking
at when you're looking for undiscovered
talent that's a sign of okay, this
person is really special. I know you
have a lot to talk about here, but just
like what's one tip?
>> I think it's basically isolating why
other people aren't going to process
them correctly. Like most of the
recruiting at large organizations
becomes sort of a homogeneous function.
And so, if you understand why this
person is going to get thrown into this
black box kind of thing and not get
processed accurately, it's pretty easy.
So, I always think about, you know,
let's say this person was interviewing
at Meta or Google or Block these days or
Coinbase.
What are they going to miss?
And then why? And then that leads to oh,
perfect.
So, sometimes it's just lack of
information. Like one of the reasons why
you know, sometimes it's controversial
to say this, but one of the reasons why
the net impact of my hire of
undiscovered talent is you wind up
skewing younger, it's not because you
need young people, it's that younger
people have by definition less data.
It's like a you know, we use credit
scoring, FICO scores.
It's the same thing for employment. By
the time you're over 30 some lot of
things, there's so many data points
about you that this black box machine is
usually going to process you like many
other people. If there's no data points,
it's very hard for a black box machine
that does homogeneous evaluation to
evaluate you. So, there is alpha, so to
speak, by definition for people have
like no data points.
>> It's interesting how this is the same
skill as being an investor, picking
startups to invest in.
>> Yeah, absolutely.
>> Okay, I want to talk about something
else. I asked a few people that know you
well that work with you at various
companies what to talk to you about, and
one person said that when I asked him
what to talk about, he said, "My
immediate reaction is that he is a bar
raiser.
No matter what kind of numbers we put
up, he pushes us to do more. In fact,
often it seems like the better we do,
the harder he pushes."
Uh does that resonate?
>> Yeah, I think that's true. I mean, I
think look, ultimately
um I'll I'll you I'll I'll channel
someone else's feedback, but it's it's
the same thing.
So, uh
a friend of mine who's a CEO once asked
Mike Moritz, like, "What's the most
common denominator of the best CEOs
ever?"
And he said, "It's the relentless
application of force." Quote.
I think that's the job of the CEO.
People eventually get comfortable,
complacent. The more success you have,
the more complacent the organization
tends to get, and the single role for
the CEO is offsetting that complacency.
So, put the point, the more success you
have,
the better you're doing, the more
complacency naturally kicks in. And
unless you've a net erected a network
effect, you do not want to get
complacent. Even then, you need to
debate whether you should, but like
fundamentally, most businesses are not
network effect businesses. They're not
going to run on, you know, on their own
for a long time. So, I think that's one
insight is the better you're doing, the
more the CEO should push. Secondly, um
it's a little bit like sports when
you're growing up.
People
when they're winning,
take advantage of feedback better than
when they're losing, usually.
Like so, for example, you know, now what
I do is mostly mostly VC, mostly a board
member, mostly I could conceivably
narrate to a founder.
And when the company's struggling, maybe
what's less intuitive, and you may
picked up on this in your research and,
you know, interviews of people who know
me,
when a company's struggling, I'm
actually usually a
very non-critical and more like a coach
and supporter,
because the company the founder knows
they're struggling.
Being critical doesn't really help them
solve their problems. That's when being
supportive can actually
somewhat counterintuitively be more
important. But when the company's
thriving,
it's really important to be critical and
isolating things that will eventually be
problems while everybody in the
company's really happy and and
borderline complacent. So, you you kind
of want to be the opposite as a default.
And that's like a similar really good
sports coach. When you're winning is
when to polish everything and really
master the details. When you're losing,
you definitely also have to be exciting
people and embracing the future and
selling the future.
>> So, is the advice say someone's
listening, a founder or product leader,
the advice here is just keep pushing
harder, set the bar higher as things
even if you're doing great?
>> Yeah, if you're doing great. Well, also
you have to remember like I I I remember
giving a speech once and it's where it's
like
you get to a certain threshold, you
create an inflection.
Momentum gets you to certain, you know,
valuation and all the all these like
attributes.
But it's kind of like winning a Super
Bowl.
You get the last year was great. Last
four quarters were wonderful. It's like
winning the Super Bowl.
You got to come back next year and start
your record zero is zero again. And you
got to remember that. Actually,
venture's like that. You know, I
I'm only as good as my last investment.
I've had like 13 years or whatever of
pretty damn good investments, but like
truthfully, I have to wake up every day
and find some undiscovered founder
that's going to change the world. And if
I don't do that, it doesn't matter what
I've done the last 13 years. And a
company's kind of like that. The company
can skate on autopilot for a while.
Venture, you really can't ever skate.
>> I definitely saw this with Brian Chesky.
He just felt like things were going
great. And we just shipped amazing
products and growth is up. And he's just
just always like pedal to the metal, no
matter what. Just like, "Come on, when
are we going to take a little break?"
And it's interesting cuz when we did
have little breaks here and there,
morale actually went down because people
are like, "What am I working on? I don't
know. It's not that exciting."
>> and I are usually in sync a lot. Um
there's a really good interview where I
interviewed him also at the same
conference of how to hire, uh where he
talks mostly about founder mode. But I I
generally subscribe to virtually all of
Brian's views. He even taught me some of
these things himself. Uh but the the the
more important point I think you
identified, which is very subtle, is
really talented people
are like superb athletes.
And when things are going well and
people are really kind of coasting,
they're not happy.
They have an internal clock tempo. They
just want to create things and create
value and drive drive and like
you know, like the morale actually does
go down for the best people in the world
when people are skating.
>> Okay, so actually along those lines
there's a lot of anxiety in the market
in the job market about
the future of careers. Am I going to
have a job? Am I going to
like where are things going? And it just
feels like people are working very, very
hard. They're just putting a lot of
hours, especially the most AI pill
people. It just feels like they're
working harder than ever. I don't know
if you saw this thing Tyler Cowen put
out of just like work harder. Now is the
time to work harder cuz AI is
eating away at your value.
You know, you probably you probably talk
to a lot of people looking for career
advice of just like this feels scary and
uh I feel like I'm working too hard.
What should I do? I don't know. Do you
have any just like advice for folks?
>> Well, it's just that AI AI is going to
radically reorient, you know, lots of
people's careers and me including mine.
So, I think that's actually true and I
think the way to thrive
in a rapidly emerging technology world
is to be intellectually curious. So, for
example, you know, I'm a business person
historically, you know, I did it
actually code when I was really young,
but like basically professionally just a
business person.
What I've noticed in some of the best
organizations is the number one consumer
of tokens
is the CMO.
>> CMO?
>> are intellectually curious.
And so, they're like, "Wow, there's all
these cool things I can do now with my
hands
either I had to rely on other teams or
never got access the way I wanted and
blah blah blah or a lab and they just do
it." This is actually true at OpenDoor.
It's true at another great company that
I'm on the board of that's in an
incredible And I So, I think you can be
intellectually curious and future-proof
yourself um more than just Yes, you can
work harder and I I'm big subscriber to
like no days off and working all the
time and all that stuff, but
fundamentally the intellectual curiosity
is how you learn new things and that is
how you embrace the future.
>> So, and you said CMO is who's using the
most?
>> CMO. In both of these two companies
>> That's interesting.
>> both massive, in you know, awesome
companies with lots of engineers.
And I think that's
that's very encouraging. Um you know,
for for the executive particularly like
This this definitely like the most
exciting of the company.
>> And what are they building? Is it like
landing pages and paid tests?
>> It's Well, sometimes it's like more like
what we would have thought of analytics.
>> Mhm.
>> Sometimes it's actually campaigns. Like
actual campaigns. It's just like they
don't need to rely upon deputies and
deputies and deputies to get actual work
product. Um and so they're just like
shipping things and like or shipping you
know, drops of things or giving the CEO
insights into things themselves.
>> I want to get your take on the future of
specifically the product triad. Uh you
work with a lot of product people,
engineers, designers.
Uh everyone's always wondering what the
hell's going to happen my career.
Thoughts on just the future of those
three specific roles?
>> Well, I saw this podcast or listened to
this podcast that Peter Fenton did and
he convinced me that the idea of a PM
makes no sense basically in the future.
If you think about decomposing the
logic, is what does a PM usually do?
They take these inputs from customers,
they create this sequential road map
that's well organized over the next
year, blah blah blah blah blah.
That world
is like ridiculous. Like right now, the
capabilities of foundation models or
companies like Lambda School and you
know, things like that are just so
improving such a rapid rate that it
makes no sense to have a year-long road
map.
And they they're just like incoherent.
There are things that were impossible to
do in November
that are actually pretty easy to do
right now in March. And so I think you
need to build an organization that's
incredibly adapt at Yeah, people say
nimble and all this stuff, but
incredibly adapt at changing the road
map almost on the fly.
And I think intermediaries like
conventional PMs don't make a lot of
sense versus
being prepared intellectually embracing
and exploiting noticing. So someone
needs to notice that oh wow, we can
actually do this, but then exploiting it
this week
is the future of a very a high-growth
stellar startup will notice that
something's now possible this week and
create new features and new value for
customers next week.
>> That's such an interesting area of
discussion. A lot of people are saying
things are PMs. So when I try to defend
that role just to see if you can see if
I can convince you otherwise.
Uh and by the way, I will say Marc
Andreessen had this really good visual
of just what's happening here is like
every all those three functions, it's
like the standout where they're all like
I'm going to taking it. The future is my
role. The future is design. That's
engineering is the future.
So the way I see it is
as AI makes it easier to build and kind
of eats the middle of the software
development process, just anyone can
build. You tell AI here's what I want.
Um the hard part
the the gap at least for now is figuring
out what to build and then aligning
everyone around what to build.
>> I agree with that. I actually think like
whether you talk about someone who used
to be a PM or someone used to be a
designer or called an engineer, the
skill is more like being a CEO now.
Which is what are we building and why?
>> Exactly.
>> And it should be a successful engineer
that trait's critical. To be a
successful designer because the tools
and the the ability to actually create
the thing, an object is going to be
easier and easier.
But the art is now what to build. You
know, another competitor of mine, Alfred
Lin at Sequoia likes to talk about being
a chef.
When you're a chef at like a a prime
restaurant you're not actually cooking
the dish.
You're sampling, you know, your
colleagues and you know, editing their
work a little bit, but fundamentally
it's half a commercial role. Being a
Being a chef in a famous restaurant is
what's our value proposition? How do we
differentiate yourself? How do we brand
ourselves? What's our segment? What's
our pricing, you know, etc. What's our
location even? That's what makes, you
know, a famous chef. It's not they're
literally cooking the dish all the time.
>> Okay. I 100% agree. Interestingly
enough, PMs are called mini CEOs often
and I think the important thing is that
it's not like what do you call this
person? I think the question is what
skill will be most Like where are human
brains still going to be necessary?
>> Business acumen. It's basically business
acumen.
>> Right. Like what will help this company
grow and succeed? And
>> Exactly. I understand the company's
business equation, where we're trying to
go and what the inputs and connection
outputs are
and I can
on my own
create things that move the needle or
potentially move the needle. It's very
exciting because, you know, you can
actually drive impact like much more
easily now as an individual.
>> My conclusion based on what you just
shared is of the three roles, which role
is best at that and in historically it'd
be PMs. Obviously, I think the important
thing here is it's like the best, you
know, it's like great PMs or great
engineers, designers will do well.
But I think interestingly what you're
describing to me is what it sounds like
what a great PM would be really good at
basically or potentially good at.
>> If they were exceptional, I think that's
right, but I think the best A lot of the
best engineers I've worked with have
commercial instincts like Max Levchin
has his on steroids. Jeremy Stoppelman,
he who has
worked with me very closely at PayPal
before he started Yelp and got promoted
to be engineering director and vice
president of PayPal has commercial
instincts, you know, back when he was an
individual contributor. So, I think
there are great engineers who are
technically proficient that have always
understood the business building.
>> Yeah. I think that's like the ultimate
unicorn is an engineer that is also very
business-minded.
>> It's going to put a premium I I think
this will in the age of AI will put an
incredible premium on that because
they're not going to need a large team.
You're not going to be marshaling the
forces.
Like you know, another example is a good
friend of mine is director of
engineering at Ramp.
He ships as much code personally. So you
he has a team of about 20 people.
He personally ships as much code as he
used to as an individual contributor
while he's managing a team of 20.
Because the tools are so great and he's
become a leading pioneer in the usage of
AI. And he's basically using AI as a as
a second team. He's basically like,
okay, you're the team manager, you do
this, you do this, you do this, this
this together, check this out, blah blah
blah. And I think that is definitely the
future.
>> I 100% agree. Engineers that are very
good at that are just extra valuable.
Uh what's your take on design in the
future of design, the value of design?
>> Well, you know, it's interesting. I
design and code are merging and it's not
it's not clear to me
who triumphs or like is it code becomes
design and well
design just translate automatically to
code. Um I made some investments that
bet on both in some ways, but I I think
they're merging in a way where they're
not separate you know, fiefdoms anymore.
>> I am so excited to tell you about this
season's supporting sponsor, Vanta.
Vanta helps over 15,000 companies like
Cursor, Ramp, Duolingo, Snowflake, and
Atlassian earn and prove trust with
their customers. Teams are building and
shipping products faster than ever
thanks to AI. But as a result, the
amount of risk being introduced into
your product and your business is higher
than it's ever been. Every security
leader that I talk to is feeling the
increasing weight of protecting their
organization, their business, and not to
mention their customer data. Because
things are moving so fast, they are
constantly reacting, having to guess at
priorities, and having to make do with
outdated solutions. Vanta automates
compliance and risk management with over
35 security and privacy frameworks,
including SOC 2, ISO 27001, and HIPAA.
This helps companies get compliant fast
and stay compliant. More than ever
before, trust has the power to make or
break your business. Learn more at
vanta.com/lenny.
And as a listener of this podcast, you
get $1,000 off Vanta. That's
vanta.com/lenny.
>> What I'm seeing is something really
interesting happening with design.
On the one hand, I just did some
analysis on the job market for design,
and it's basically plateaued in terms of
the number of open design roles over the
past 3 years. It just hasn't gone
anywhere. It's a flat.
We had uh the head of Cloud Design,
Jenny Wen, on the podcast, and she had
this
a kind of insight that the design
process There's no time for the design
the traditional design process. There's
like Engineers are shipping 17 things a
day. There's no time to sit there and
help mock and prototype and all these
things.
>> Well, let me give you a couple concrete
examples. So, at Shopify, the way they
develop they develop They've been doing
this for over 2 years now. So,
this may seem normal, but
they have not let PMs uh
provide like PowerPoint or Keynote
presentations on product for like 2
years.
Every presentation on product has to be
a workable
demo.
And they just expect the PMs to create
the products. And they the exacts just
re- fused to look at static, you know,
we're going to have this feature.
No, I want everything working. This is
for 2 years.
So, I think that, you know, again, like
everything's just merging together.
>> That's so interesting. You would think
though, because there are so many
products launching every single day.
Like, there's just endless things to pay
attention to. You would think design
would be a differentiator more and more.
>> I do agree with that. I I do agree with
that, actually. I think the alpha is in
design, just like in marketing. It's not
the tools, it's not the channels, it's
not the metrics.
It's the storytelling. It's how do you
cut through the clutter in the
snappiest, most compelling possible way?
There's an There's kind of an
NP-complete problem. There's so many
different words you can use to express
the same concept.
But, the person who can say, "This is
the way to frame it." You know, the
proverbial thousand songs in your
market, is worth like all the tools in
the world.
>> Yeah, so that's the other part of my
insight recently is just as AI makes it
easier to build, it's kind of expanding
from the middle out. And what remains is
figure out what to build and making it
iterating on the idea. And then it's at
the other end of the spectrum, which is
distribution. Getting anyone to pay any
attention to what the heck you've done,
cuz again, there's so much happening
every single day.
>> Yeah, cutting through the clutter. I
mean, that's always been critical. I
mean, one of the When people are
pitching me as an investor, it's one of
the things I'm dialing into, you're you
know, immediately is how the how the
hell is this going to cut through the
clutter? It's one of the reasons why I
don't like to take like customer
feedback into account, because by
definition, when you put something in
front of a customer, that's not a proxy
for the real world. In the real world,
you have to cut through the clutter
while they're going to their berries
boot camp, while they're doing their
job, while they're raising their kids,
you know, etc., etc. While they're
walking, while they're on the subway.
Like that like, you know, an isolated
fake experiment doesn't give you
actionable insights and often is
directionally wrong.
>> Interestingly on that line, uh there's a
few companies that are launching, Simily
is one, that is simulating humans. I
don't know if you heard about this
company. They basically are building AI
models of
actual people, so that you can simulate
your marketing launch and your product
experience with people before you
launch.
>> I don't know that I've seen that
specific company. I have um seen one or
two uh sort of pitches.
My My general question as a refrain on
those type of companies is what are they
training on?
Cuz they can again, if they're not
training on the right data,
it's dangerous to say you're simulating
humans.
>> Yeah. Yeah, that is the question. Oh
man, what a weird world. Along these
lines actually, I have this uh I don't
know if you call it a hot take that AI
content is going to surpass human
content and that's just the future.
>> Oh, yeah. That's That's inevitable.
>> Well.
Someone was I was talking to someone and
then she was saying in like the Chinese
Tik Tok uh app, it's just like all AI
videos now and it's like very good. She
like actually enjoys watching these
videos and then these stories.
>> I think there'll be like a binary sort
maybe.
I could see products and content
thriving that is clearly still human
generated and that there's some desire
for authenticity.
Just like for example, you know, this
piece of art is a Warhol.
Anybody could create this now
high fidelity, but there's still an
appreciation for this was created by
Andy Warhol. I think there's going to be
a curated experience
uh with a premium of provenance, you
know, that you know is human created.
And then there's just going to be a uh
sort of a rank filtering of what's the
best content.
And whether it's AI generated or not,
it's a little bit like the Ben Thompson
Stratechery thing of curation, you know,
versus algorithm.
There's going to be two poles and the
curation may be for human created stuff
and then there's going to be the
algorithm which is just what's the best.
>> I 100% believe that. That makes so much
sense. I was just thinking the other
day, it's so interesting that AI is
getting very good at video, like videos
that are actually fun to watch that are
AI generated. And then like images are
getting really good, but writing is
still really bad that is AI generated.
And And it's ironic that it's called a
large language model. It's all context
text text trained and it's just like
that's the thing it's least good at,
which is really weird.
>> Well, I think part of that is the
economic decision of token rationing by
um the LLMs. Like they
they basically are
when you prompt, they're kind of trying
to make their economics work within a
bell curve distribution.
And so if for example I've used uh
prompt to know to write something that's
very short, the quality is significantly
better than if it's a page paragraph I
mean page to chapter to book. If I think
it's token rationing rationing versus
versus actual quality.
>> You would think that you know like I
don't know if it was Hemingway of just
like if I had more time I would have
made it shorter. Like it takes it's more
work than that.
>> but then you have I think the writing it
right now what works best is short
many short examples and then you can
picking editing
>> Yeah.
>> re-prompting.
It's a little bit like when I used to be
a litigator 25 plus years ago.
The hardest part of writing a brief
all all the art I mean all the magic was
the first paragraph. If I could write
that first paragraph
really well
the chance I would win the case and
convince the judge would go through the
roof.
So what I would actually do is I might
have 3 weeks to write a brief.
I might spend the first
week or more
walking around the office
thinking through
how am I going to nail the first three
sentences?
Once I figured out how I wanted to frame
those first three sentences, I could
write 30 pages in like 2 days.
But getting that right
could take a week or two.
Sometimes it would occur to me in the
shower or it would literally the you
know shower or in the middle of a run.
It's like oh my god, I just still it.
Then I could just sit down and power
through the rest of the brief. And I
think it's a little bit like that the
power through the rest of the brief
works well. You still need the first
three sentences.
>> Is there a story from that time in your
life that would be interesting to share?
I didn't even know about that.
>> So yeah, not everybody knows you know I
spent the first four and a half years of
my professional career as a law clerk
and then a litigator.
Um but it occasionally comes in handy
truthfully like sometimes
trading off business risk against legal
risk is a valuable thing to do.
Um sometimes it's not accidental that
many of my best investments
um are in financial services in heavy
heavily regulated areas because I think
I can sort of do the legal risk
assessment in my own brain. This is
definitely true back in the day when I
invested in YouTube. Um but um I think
most things that lawyers learn are very
uh
inconsistent with being an entrepreneur.
So, when you're being trained as a
lawyer, you learn every exam in law
school virtually is
uh issue spotting. So, you get credit
for identify There's like five powers of
identify all the issues and then resolve
them. So, you learn to identify
everything that can go wrong.
Moderately useful but very not useful as
an entrepreneur. I mean, sure you can
identify all the reasons a company could
fail, not that difficult to do. The hard
you know, solving those.
Uh so, you know, not the best training
and then you also measure your
productivity by hours worked. You know,
literally you bill per hour. It took me
2 years and maybe a year and a half
after converting to technology to stop
tracking all my time. I used to
literally write down in my notebook, "Uh
half hour this meeting, 20 minutes on
this, you know, blah blah blah." Just
couldn't get it out of my brain.
>> That is so funny. And David Sacks was a
lawyer, too. It's like interesting how
he
>> That's true. Peter Peter was a lawyer.
Peter was smart enough to quit after
uh 5 months and 4 days, I think. David
never practiced, so maybe even smarter
uh than both of us.
>> Okay, I'm going to hit on some uh hot
takes, contrarian takes that you have.
You have a number of these. I heard you
share in a podcast recently. They asked
you um why don't you have as many
contrarian takes these days? And you're
like, "Well, they're just all all been
proven right."
>> And that's the problem is, you know, if
you have good ideas, eventually you want
them to be adopted. It's a little bit
like a uh you know, when you're an
investor, you want to be contrarian. So,
Airbnb, you start with a contrarian
take, but eventually if the company's
going to succeed, it has to become
consensus. Like everybody in the world
has to use it and believe in it and
trust it. So, you want that inflection.
Like you don't want to just have
contrarian takes and then nobody believe
it. So, you do need a refresh rate. Um
and then the question is how do you have
a, you know, how do you find new ideas?
But you want to actually exhaust them.
>> Okay, so one that I think people still
just like would disagree with is that
your advice is for um
for unless you're building an enterprise
company, you don't actually want to be
talking to customers.
>> Yeah, I hate talking to customers. I
refuse to allow colleagues of mine to
talk to customers.
You know, there's the the famous, you
know, you can talk about the famous
stuff and the Steve Jobs, you know, the
horses and you don't faster horses and
all this stuff. But I think it's more
important is it's often directionally
wrong. Customers don't know what they
want and they're very bad because it's a
subconscious decision, especially for
consumers. Like what I purchase, what I
wear is not a conscious decision. And
when you're consciously trying to answer
a subconscious decision, you actually
give misleading information even when
you're trying. You know, the proverbial
example I like to use, but it it's
instructive, is ask anybody who drives a
super fancy car, like a Porsche or a
Lamborghini, like why they bought the
car.
99% of the time they will tell you every
reason except the real reason.
That once you realize that, you're like,
I'm never asking customers anything.
Now, if it's hardcore enterprise,
customer development does work because
there is a book that there is a decision
maker.
And the decision maker is mostly making
utilitarian decision. And yes, there's
political forces within the organization
and they may or you may or may not be
able to tap into those, but
fundamentally
that extracting that information is
valuable, but a consumer SMB micro
merchant product unmitigated disaster.
>> And so the implication here is you need
to rely on your instincts and gut and
experience.
>> Yeah, I mean, humans are humans. I have
this other line I like which is
everything important you need to learn
about humans is written by Shakespeare.
Just read Shakespeare. Like that's
better than all the customer research.
Um now you are producing a movie and
ultimately this movie doesn't just need
to be critically acclaimed. You have to
sell tickets. So you're not selling
tickets, you have to question, okay, is
the trailer wrong?
Is our distribution, you know, where
we're trying to meet people to let them
know about the movie, is that wrong?
Fortunately, unlike a movie,
you can go back and say, have I casted
this somewhat incorrectly? Is the script
slightly off, you know, etc. But the
goal is selling tickets and that's what
you want to optimize for, but if you
don't sell tickets successfully,
economically, efficiently, you
definitely want to go back in a loop and
try to reorient things so that if you
are selling tickets.
>> It's like CAC LTV kind of stuff. Is what
I'm hearing here.
And so your your insight here is just
like it's not only like it's like it's
not going to help you. You're saying
more so it's actually harmful.
>> It's harmful. And then people will say,
yeah, like I've sat in so many meetings
and this is going to infuriate me, but
where people will be like, I talked to
eight customers, blah blah blah blah
blah, and I know that this isn't
statistically representative. But then
they pontificate for an hour.
And then and then they're like, oh, I
know this is not, you know, blah blah
blah, and but once you hear this stuff,
it's like you can't take this out of
your brain. And then every other
subsequent meeting is like this this
stuff is just locked in the customer's
brain. So yes, in the enterprise when
you have like I I work at a company in
AI that has 30 must-win accounts.
That's like the goal for the company
over the next 2 years, make sure all 30
and we're doing really well, we get all
30 using our product.
Great. We actually can talk to all 30
customers and we can actually meet the
decision maker all 30 customers and we
can influence the CEO right? All 30
customers. That is a useful exercise.
If you're targeting a billion people on
the planet, you are not getting a
representative feedback.
>> Being a a contrarian, take many people
would not believe this is good advice.
Do you have a story, maybe, or an
example of just like, wow, this like
someone talking to a customer saying,
we're going in the wrong direction for a
while.
>> Oh, all the all the time. They're called
failed companies. You know, there's a
There's a reason why there's a
Darwinistic efficiency to this, too,
which is just like
hey, there are things you can that like
is it feasible to do XYZ? So, for
instance, let's go like DoorDash. I
don't I don't I don't think customers
told us that we want a button on our
phone to click to deliver food. But you
could talk to restaurants and say, hey,
would you put this placard here
so that people walking into your store
know in the future they can get
delivery.
Okay, yeah, maybe. Then could you run an
experiment of how many deliveries per
hour would you have to do to, you know,
break even?
And is there enough density, you know,
within a Like there are ways to improve
the odds that you can make the business
work.
But I don't think launching the company
saying, hey, we found 10 people in Palo
Alto,
you know, do you want this button on
your phone? So, you know, when Tony and
Evan walked into my office originally,
the epiphany I had was, well, they had a
stat, which is 93% of restaurants in the
United States don't deliver. I was like,
okay.
Seems like it should be a higher
percentage than seven.
Convinced. Um and then I when they were
describing what they wanted to create,
Andrew Mason of Groupon fame had
famously said, these phones, these
devices should have two buttons, I'm
bored and I'm hungry.
And I I was like, oh my god, you're the
I'm a I'm hungry button. And then so it
just clicked in my brain, and then it
was like, "Okay, now we need to make it
economically possible
to scalably do this. Good luck, guys."
>> And this advice is not just consumer.
You're also talking like DoorDash has
like SMB-ish.
>> Yeah, like Square and things like that.
>> Square, yeah.
>> Yeah, Square is a good example. Like
anything sub mid-market, I think it's a
it's directionally dangerous.
>> And the advice here is basically trust
your insights. Like you need to have the
insight yourself. You can't find it by
>> typically the best companies
>> Yeah.
>> There's foundational insight. And you
know, people don't necessarily want to
hear that, but like
there's logic you can acid test or
pressure test the logic. Like the aren't
like, you know, to some extent, like
when Brian first pitched me on Airbnb,
there was some interesting evidence he
already had this was going to be
successful. The number one that one
stuck with me at the time
was he gave me the exact number of
Craigslist listings that said,
"I want to rent someone's bedroom." And
it was actually a reasonable number. It
was like 30 in the Bay Area.
But given that you had to literally type
it in and
you know, sort of have the epiphany
yourself. I was like, "That's a lot,
actually. That's like a probably a real
market there."
And I was already like as soon as he
said that, I was already leaning in. And
by the time he finished his 3-minute
model, I know it was like this is the
coolest thing ever. I need to invest.
>> Yeah, and I think Airbnb is a good
example where he's was solving his own
problem. Saw an opportunity. Wasn't like
talking to people, "Hey, would you do
this?" Sort of thing.
>> And And people would have said, "No."
You know, if you sampled the wrong
people,
definitely would have got feedback that
was like, "No." Like very very high
risk. Like that's a good example where
you had sampled 10 random people, good
chance that nine
plus percent would say, "No, I wouldn't
do that."
>> You know what's really interesting? I
was just watching Taylor Swift's
acceptance speech at this award show,
iHeartMedia something or other, and
and she gave this really powerful speech
that when she was starting out, she was
just kind of at home
uh
working on songs, learning piano, just
in a room on her own
uh and had thousands of hours to just
iterate on learn and get better. Versus
today, if you were to do this, you'd be
posting it, sharing it, people giving
you feedback constantly.
And her advice is just like
find ways to just not
expose yourself to people for a long
time.
>> So, I have a couple of friends who are
like in artists in the music industry.
And I think what she's saying is one of
the reasons why it's sometimes difficult
for artists to have success to recreate
the success. Because the first success
was not data driven, was not customer
feedback driven. It was like I'm
creating this and it's resonating.
Then, because they have an audience,
someone, either they or their manager,
whoever, the label, blah blah blah blah
blah, wants them to get feedback. And it
creates derivative, you know, sort of
works, not strictly legally, but like
derivative works that are less inspired.
Um there's a podcast that Jack Conte did
with uh my friend Alex from The
Chainsmokers. He actually talks about
this at some length that
they created this song that actually
didn't resonate with their core uh their
normal audience,
um
but actually resonated with a different
audience,
um which is interesting. Um so, I I I
think you can get trapped with success
if you It's a It's a good illustration,
actually.
>> There's also this concept of the ugly
baby in creativity. Ain't kind of enough
you read that book at Catmull about
every idea at Pixar, like every great
idea starts as this ugly baby that no
one wants to like help and pay attention
to and just like I get this out of here.
>> I should have started it. I mean, that
is actually the start of it. Like I use
this prism as an investor, which is when
I make a seed investment or series A
investment, let's say, I want half half
friends who are VCs to laugh at me. Like
literally laugh, because I I know most
of the people I compete with pretty
well. And so I'm running this algorithm
through my brain, are these people going
to laugh?
If so, like this is a great investment
potentially great investment because
it's an ugly baby. And ugly babies are
the ones where there's real alpha.
>> That's so interesting you say that. I
did some research recently on what are
signs we interviewed this me and
Terrence Rohan, I don't know if you know
him VC.
We interviewed early employee people
that have joined early generational
companies many times.
And like they open open AI, they joined
open AI early before anyone knew about
it. Palantir really early, Stripe. And
so we asked them what did you look for
and there's three patterns and one of
them was exactly that. The idea people
laughed at them. They thought it was
crazy. This is never going to work.
Palantir for example, open AI for
example.
>> Yeah, my parents used to laugh at almost
all my jobs in tech.
You know, they used to be very funny.
They thought I was going to be homeless
because most of them did not make sense
to them.
>> That's classic parents. No idea what the
hell people do in tech.
Yeah.
>> They did They did appreciate Stripe
though. My mom always appreciated Stripe
and
always trying to lobby me to invest and
I finally listened.
>> Nice. Good job mom. She earned her keep.
Okay, we just shifted perspective
because Keith's iPad was dying. A
classic that's maybe the downside of the
iPad.
>> of the iPad is I use it too much.
>> It's like that's product market fit.
Okay, I want to actually follow up on
this discussion we're having about just
finding great companies.
A lot of people are starting AI
companies now. There's so many
launching.
As an investor, I'm just curious what's
the sign that this is a worthwhile idea
considering the endless number of
startups launching and maybe what are
some just like flags that like, okay,
maybe don't work on that idea.
>> Well, the extra essential question
everybody talks about these days is, you
know, are the foundation labs just going
to be so proficient that there's no
oxygen? Because you if you're building a
successful startup, you need to build
for like 8 to 20 years into the future.
Like whether you just discount or
capital analysis or some other prism, it
doesn't matter. Ultimately, you have to
build for something that's durable for
decades. And the rate of progress at the
foundational uh by the foundational
labs, and not just one, multiple of
them, really does start creating
questions about the sustainability of
even companies that are look like
they're thriving in the short term. So,
that's one question. The second question
I'd ask is very typical of always ask
this question for like 25 years, which
are what are the accumulating advantages
of the startup? You do want to believe
that over time you create an unfair
advantage. And there're different
species of accumulating advantages. You
know, the one that people immediately
gravitate to, but it's only one
illustration of
a set of options is network effects. But
you want something that over time makes
the business better and better and
better, better, arguably easier and
easier at some point.
>> Do you see those sorts of things at the
beginning like when you're seeing a you
know, seed stage startup?
>> Yeah, it's a great question because I
think people can conflate uh two things.
There's a difference between seeing it
and understanding the potential. So,
what I'm looking for when I meet a
founder is can they articulate where the
accumulating advantages
can be
in theory, conceptually. They don't have
to have demonstrated it. Yes, there's an
occasional example once every 5 years
you might find one where early you can
see you can actually point your finger
on it empirically, but that that's way
too strict as a bar for an early stage
investor.
But you really I personally want the
founder to articulate to me
where they can build accumulating
advantages and maybe even sequentially
identify when they would start
either taking advantage of them,
leveraging them, or measuring them.
>> So, when you're looking at when you're
evaluating startups these days, I know
this is like a very hard question to
answer, but just what do you Is there
anything in particular you're looking
for that you get really excited about?
>> I'm a founder-driven investor. So, the
only thing I really care about is
does this founder have a non-zero chance
of changing an industry or the world?
And if they do, for a seed or series A
investment, I'm in, period. Don't ask
any of the other questions. That's all I
need to identify.
Not every investor who's been successful
has the same algorithm they're running.
There are technology-driven investors,
like I would say Marc Andreessen's
probably like someone like that. Vinod
is a mix. He's both founder-driven and a
technology-driven investor. There are
investors who are sort of
product/market-driven
investors. My colleague David Weiden I'd
say is that.
I think Alfred Lin at Sequoia's mostly
that. So, you can have different uh sort
of approaches, mental models, paradigms.
But for me, it's is this founder
extraordinary? Do I have reason to
believe that this founder is the next
Brian Chesky?
>> You mentioned that you're an investor in
all these all these companies you listed
are doing incredibly well.
And you work with a lot of you're on the
boards of a lot of really successful,
incredibly uh good teams and companies.
Is there just something they are doing,
the way they operate, that is different
from companies that are not as
successful?
>> I think the subtle signal, let's say
very early, is speed. And you know, it's
one of those things that's easy to say,
but let me try to be more concrete.
There's a tempo, an operating tempo,
that a successful company develops
that is very that develops very early in
a company's trajectory
and is incredibly impressive. I remember
when Roelof Botha was on my board at
Square,
he he led the series B.
So, he joined our board. And
6 months in, so two board meetings in,
he said to me, he's like, "I haven't
seen this kind of tempo since our PayPal
days."
And he'd been a VC at that point for 9
years.
And what I I was curious, so I said it
like, you know,
"What are you noticing?" And he's like,
"At board meeting X,
you guys identify an opportunity or
problem, and by the next board meeting,
you've shipped
solutions, addressed it, featured, cuz
constantly, consistently." And I I think
that's right. Like, so
the time between the seed and series A
of Fair was pretty tight.
And I remember at the time, my chief of
staff was Delyan Asparouhov.
And Delyan said to me after the second
Fair board meeting that he shadowed me
at, he said, "If there's all If there's
one company in Silicon Valley that would
cause me to leave being a VC, it'd be
Fair." And I was like, "Interesting.
Why?"
He's like, "The pace of execution." And
his answer was exactly the same as
Roelof's. He's like, "There is something
slightly off, and by the next board meet
meeting, not only have they identified
the root causes, but they've shipped and
reacted and and measured their
impact of the solution. And that
compounds. That speed really does
compound. So, that's just one uh trait,
and but you see it it it in like it did
lead me to, for example, preempt the
series A of Ramp. So, I led the seed in
like Mayish of 2019, and gave a term
sheet to preempt the A in September. So,
pretty quick.
One of the two signals was how fast Ramp
was able to be on the precipice of
shipping the cards. I'd been working in
financial services for a long time at
that point, you know, 19 years or so.
And there's just a lot of moving pieces
to ship a card. You need these program
managers, you need the sponsored bank,
and this and this and this. Usually
takes 9 to 12 months, best case nine.
Ramp was on a precipice in like 3
months, and I was like, "Oh my god, like
I've just never seen that velocity."
That was one of two, maybe three inputs,
and I was like, "Yes, makes sense to
double down already, even if we hadn't
shipped anything yet."
So, I think that's one. Critical density
of talent.
You see companies just creating an
unfair advantage.
The team was excellent you invested in
was not. Wow, this team is getting
better, you know, deeper, better, etc.
So, that that's another signal. The
third thing that I've noticed though,
you know, is I think they have a
different hiring philosophy ultimately.
And maybe there's exceptions to this,
but most of the companies I work with
that are thriving
have basically skipped hiring senior
people, senior experienced people.
Mostly internally grown talent.
And I think that model has worked really
well, especially true of Ramp.
Definitely true of Trade Republic.
It it seems to be
mostly common ingredient,
but there's probably exceptions.
>> Wow, that is an incredible answer, and
instead of traits, uh just to be clear
what you're saying in that third piece.
So, it's not hire like fancy VPs from
other successful companies, and instead
develop people internally as a trait of
>> Internally, and almost turned it into a
competitive advantage being your
strategy. Like, we're just not even to
interview people. We're not going to
try. We're just going to promote from
within.
And I I think in some roles, you know,
it's not like you're hiring a GC, you
know, typically right out of law school.
But, although we have done that once,
and it worked out pretty well, believe
it or not. But, but I I wouldn't
recommend that. You know, I had this
blog post Well, Delian wrote this blog
post of lessons he learned from Keith,
and one talks about hiring senior
people, and the the rough prism is, are
you hiring for value creation or value
preservation? If you're hiring for value
preservation, typically some experience
is useful. On the value creation side,
it's probably not.
>> It's interesting how much of this comes
back to just your initial point about
hiring and the team being everything.
Step So, number two was talent density
and three is
helping people develop and be, you know,
into the role versus finding someone.
And then obviously, speed all trickles
down from just who you're hiring.
>> Yeah, I mean, I've watched people use
like even chief of staff roles to grow
talent. Um
one company board meeting I was at this
week that did just phenomenal
um on any metric. And the last two, his
head his CMO who's who's fantastic is
performing
miraculously. Um was his last chief of
staff and his new head of product
probably is his last chief of is is his
current chief of staff. And just like
created this institution of factory
where you can absorb ambitious talented
people and over one two years in
osmosis, train them to be senior
successful leaders.
>> When you talk about speed, I think about
Ramp uh
for sure. Uh
when Jeff was on the podcast, their CPO,
he just like our title was velocity,
velocity, velocity.
And I know they have like days, if you
go to days.ramp.com, it's like the
number of days since they launched and
they're just always looking at that
number. How long is it there?
>> Oh yeah, every board meeting starts with
that, the first slide. Day day 1,184.
>> And and they're like, what are they
worth? Like a hundred billion? Not
quite, but they're
>> Probably not quite that much, but like
a reasonable fraction of that.
>> Okay, that was incredibly valuable.
Okay, one last hot take that I know you
have that I want to make sure we share
is this idea of criticizing in public
versus in private. Talk about that.
>> Yeah, so this is a lesson I actually
absorbed from one of the great founders
I work with. And you know, he had like
many great founders, they had their own
management philosophy and one of the
most important tenets is criticize
people in public.
And
when you decompose the logic of it, it's
so obviously true, but almost no one
does this and very few people talk about
it even if they do it. So, if you think
about it, when you give people feedback
negative individually, you're optimizing
for the atomic unit, not the system.
The reason why to do it in public is
it's more important for all the
colleagues to understand that there's an
issue, it's being addressed.
Versus like they they usually have
suspicions, let's say, or concerns. And
if you channel the negative feedback to
the individual, they don't know that
you're addressing this and you're on top
of it, you're aware you're addressing
it. Now, it's a collaborative
Um and then also it lets other people
kind of raise their hand and say, "You
know what? I can kind of help with
that." Or, you know, etc. And so, it
becomes like a team-building exercise in
some way versus like, "Oh, you have this
deficiency, go fix it yourself." And
then the rest of the company, you know,
is nervous about why this problem is
persisting.
>> When people hear this, they may it may
feel like, "Oh, wait, I'm just it's like
it feels aggressive to be criticized
everyone in public, call them out."
Any advice for just like how do you not
make it this like, I don't know, scary
environment? Or is that part of it?
>> Well, I think you want to win. You know,
and there's probably an
an art to this. Like I would say, you
know, some of the best coaches in sports
probably do a bit of both.
Like there's things they will say in
front of the team and then there's
things they'll probably, you know,
channel to the individual player. So,
it's probably a mix, you know, to be
very effective, too.
>> It feels like you're not a
focus on psychological safety as a core
tenant.
>> No. No, I don't believe in that at all.
Like
high-performance machines don't have
psychological safety, they're about
winning.
Like it for those who want to you know,
a good book that solves central casting
for you is read Jordan Rules
or watch The Last Dance if you like, but
like fundamentally, read Jordan Rules.
If you want to be a Michael Jordan, you
got to act like Michael Jordan.
>> Do you feel like that's negatively
correlated this idea of psychological
safety with success? There's just
>> For the most part.
>> Yeah, interesting.
I'm going to take us to failure corner.
Okay, so failure corner. So that you
know, you talk about all these things
you've done that are incredibly well,
these companies you invested in, all
these businesses you built, PayPal, all
these things. People don't realize
there's also a lot of failures along the
way.
Is there a story of a time you failed in
your career or investing that might
illuminate the down, you know, when
things don't go great?
>> Well, I mentioned I mentioned one, I
alluded to one by accident. I talked
about being acquired or whatever into
Google and being stuck there. I'm so
clearly not successful.
That was slide. So, you know, we did
sell for like 187 million, but not
nowhere near the ambition, you know,
didn't really achieve any
goals product-wise or company-wise.
Investing teaches you, you know, mostly
about failures. You know, if you're
a world world-class investor in the
early stages, 30 to 40% hit rate is
great and golden
by definition.
That's like 50 to 60, you know, percent,
70% failing. There's It's a little bit
like those old Nike commercials where
there's the Michael Jordan one where
it's like, you know, I've missed 109
game-winning shots in my career or
there's the tennis one, I think it's
Federer that's like, you know,
I
something like I win 60% of my points.
I don't mean I'm like the best tennis
player ever, but I lose 40%. So, there's
a lot of that in venture. You definitely
have failures all day long. I think one
of the arts is like
not getting too caught up in failure,
actually. I I think over I actually gave
this feedback in the board meeting
recently, which is someone
you know, well-mentioned, well-meaning,
one of two board members are like,
"Well, let's do retros on our failures."
And the company's doing really well, so
I was like, "You know what? Honestly,
I'm not sure I would do this."
I was like, "I don't want to deter
people from taking ambitious shots on
goal.
And if you overemphasize failures,
and you really people think they're
going to get criticized,
this is where the psychological safety
maybe has some validity, which is
damn it, just be bold.
Don't worry about the failing part
unless there's things you miss that, you
know, could have been factored in, but
you want people to take risk, and you
want people to be excited about raising
their hands for very difficult problems
and challenges cuz that's how you create
value.
And so I was like, "No, let's let's
really not do these retros.
Let's just focus on winning."
>> Contrarian takes all around.
Keith, is there anything else you wanted
to share, anything else you want to
leave listeners with before we get to
our very exciting lightning round?
>> I'm excited for your lightning round.
This is usually like one of the best
parts of your podcast.
>> Okay, first question. What are two or
three books that you find yourself
recommending most other people?
>> So, the number one one is called The
Upside of Stress
by Kelly McGonigal, she's a professor at
Stanford. And basically it argues in an
incredibly compelling way that if you
want to be happy, healthy, or wealthy,
you need more stress in your life, not
less. So, it's magic. The evidence she
marshals is
effectively
uncriticable. That got at the outcome
level, at the biochemical level, it it
is transformative to people to read this
book, so I highly recommend it.
>> Favorite recent movie or TV show you've
uh you've enjoyed?
>> TV, I actually just watched Nuremberg
Trial. Highly recommend uh Nuremberg. Um
there's a lot of lessons there that are
applicable to the modern world. Um so, I
won't spoil it all, but
even I'm kind of a student of history
and politics,
and watching the movie, I probably
learned
five or 10 things that I I knew before.
So, highly and
it's extreme I mean, obviously not an
exciting thrilling movie,
but it's
extremely well-produced movie and
incredibly useful to understand,
you know, some of the tragedies of
history and
how to prevent them in the future.
>> Where do you find this? Is that one of
the streaming services?
>> It's either on Netflix or iTunes or
both.
>> Sweet. Okay.
Uh is there a product that you've
recently discovered that you really
love?
>> Rarely.
Um you know, I I do find I do find
products that I'm addicted to like, you
know, I've got this crusade about eight
sleep, which is another one of my
conventions is, you know, you must sleep
eight hours a day, you must prioritize
sleep even when you're very busy. Um I
am an investor and somewhat biased in
eight sleep, but
it transforms people's lives. So, I'm
still addicted to that one.
I don't know if there's like a new
product that, you know, I've been
fanatically addicted to recently.
>> Eight sleep chance.
Do you have a life motto that you find
yourself coming back to in work or in
life?
>> No days off. Hashtag no days off.
I don't believe in taking days off for
workout. I don't believe taking days off
for work, period. Um derivation for
those who are interested is
when uh Bill Belichick won the Super
Bowl for like whatever billionth time
with the Patriots,
um it's back-to-back Super Bowl wins. I
think he started the championship
celebration parade with this chant of no
days off.
So, that's that's kind of our mantra.
>> And when you say no days off, uh are you
saying like work every day? Like, you
know, like work the weekend sort of
thing or or what do you
>> That too, but like So, let's talk about
the workout side. I believe I've missed
seven days in seven years of working
out. And it it still kills me like half
of those I still am annoyed that I
missed. Like, I'm still like, "Damn it,
really really had reoriented my
schedule. I should have been able to hit
at least four of those." And I measure
it and I post it at the end of every
year.
Um last year I missed none, so I was
very happy, but I don't believe in
excuses, basically. No days off is a
proxy for I don't believe in excuses.
>> And do you work out every day? Is that
the rule?
>> I mean, literally, yeah, there's only 7
days in the last 7 years I haven't
worked out.
That includes all kinds of illness,
sickness, travel, international, time
zone travel, weddings. There's like no
excuses.
>> Like actually every day. All right.
>> More than once, typically more than once
a day, but
>> And you've told me before we started
recording you had a Barry's class this
morning, you have another one later
today.
>> I do. I and and a lift.
>> Okay, final question. So, you were
famously part of the PayPal Mafia.
I'm curious if there was someone there
that's like over-performed. Someone that
you worked with that you never thought
would be that good.
>> Honestly, no. A lot of investing in, you
know, much of most of the derivative
companies and stuff, and so I think I
had a good spidey sense
which people, you know, had
had at least founder level ambition,
and could potentially build something.
Sorry, I wish I could give you a better
answer.
>> They would have been mad at you anyway,
so this is the safer answer.
>> Well, it depends. If they've been super
successful, they've been okay.
Peter Thiel, no, just kidding.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Elon Musk.
Keith, thank you so much for doing this.
I learned so much. This is going to help
a lot of founders, a lot of people
building stuff. Two final questions,
where can folks find you online if they
want to reach out, and how can listeners
be useful to you?
>> Yeah, so @keith rabois.com, I tweet
prolifically.
You mentioned my pinned tweet, so that's
probably the easiest way.
>> Sweet.
Keith, thank you so much for being here.
>> Pleasure to be with you. Thanks for the
invitation.
>> Uh, thanks for accepting it. Bye,
everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review, as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennyspodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.